---
id: 159
title: Alive
date: 2006-10-16T23:37:09+00:00
author: aditya kumar
layout: post
guid: http://www.adityeah.com/2006/10/15/alive/
permalink: /2006/10/16/alive/
categories:
  - Personal
---
I always thought that since I hardly ever speed when I ride, I could stay away from accidents. But this is Bangalore. This careless pedestrian, a seemingly well educated man in his 20s, let me have this terrible accident that I have just had, rendering my right arm, well, unusable for at least a few days.  
  
I fell on the road, upfront. By the impact with the pedestrian (who fortunately, got no injuries, but I hated when later he smiled to me and said &#8216;sorry&#8217;), my scooter went down before me. My body went on, came to a screeching halt on the rough road about two meters ahead of the point of impact. A matter of three seconds, and I was blinded with shock. I was unaware of everything, but it was not a void. I had seen a car coming from the opposite direction and at the end of the third second, when I realised what had happened, I had a feeling it was only a matter of a moment and this car could be, would be over me. Not a matter of if, but when. I tried to get up, but my body failed to respond.  
  
The mob that had gathered helped me to come over it. People were talking to me and I can&#8217;t even recall the language they spoke. Someone pointed at the right arm, a part of it covered with blood. My mind failed to register the pain. The damn thing registers the pain now. and how.  
  
I saw death today. Up, Close and trust me, _very_, very Personal.  
  
I can&#8217;t even change my shirt. Another disadvantage of staying alone, but well, I guess, one more learning experience neverthless.  
  
To the few readers I have, you have to excuse me for a few days. It might be a week or so before you hear from me again. But I&#8217;m alive and kicking.