---
id: 121
title: In Goa
date: 2006-07-01T14:56:47+00:00
author: aditya kumar
layout: post
guid: http://www.adityeah.com/2006/07/01/in-goa/
permalink: /2006/07/01/in-goa/
categories:
  - Personal
  - Travel
---
In Goa, for a day.  
  
During the bus journey, a KSRTC Volvo bus, they started a kannada movie starring Upendra. It should only be obvious to expect a Kannada movie being played in a Karnataka state transport bus. Sadly, one north-Indian didnt realise it. Came forward, talked to the driver and asked him to change the movie. Of course, the driver frowned and uttered a few words that bounced off me.  
  
The &#8220;change-the-movie-because-I-dont-understand-kannada&#8221; man was wrong. A mistake most of us make. When you are in a different land, it is actually not the land or the people that are different. It is you, who is different. So the question of them changing for your convenience should not even arise. So what should you do? as they say, _Adjust madi_. Not much, but _swalpa_. And if it is that inconvenient, learn the language.  
  
The man should have realised, a little waiting could have done him good. As it turned out, the Upendra movie turned out to be a true copy of the Shahrukh Khan starrer, Baazigar.  


<div align="Center">
  ***
</div>

In one of the narrow main roads of Vasco, Goa, our car driver tries to unsuccessfully overtake a van. While doing so, the car is high on speed and on the wrong side of the road. The driver brakes hard and in the process gives a &#8220;Stop/Slow down&#8221; sign to the car fast approaching towards us. The other car slows down and in a few moments we are back on the correct side of the road. While crossing each other, the two drivers, in a seemingly rare gesture smile at each other and show a thumbs-up sign. Our driver, as if, thanking his counterpart on the other side, for his patience.  
  
God, will I ever get to see something like this in Bangalore&#8230;or for that matter, anywhere else in India?  
  
By the way, its a delight to be here at this time of the year. It&#8217;s green all over!