---
id: 191
title: Eklavya
date: 2007-02-17T00:55:33+00:00
author: aditya kumar
layout: post
guid: http://www.adityeah.com/2007/02/17/eklavya/
permalink: /2007/02/17/eklavya/
categories:
  - Cinema
---
**Note: There are no spoilers in this review.**  
  
The gap between parallel and commercial cinema, lately, has been reducing. At one stage the trend seemed to be going towards the Urban, brand-loving society of the cities while lately we&#8217;ve had movies like &#8216;Maqbool&#8217;, &#8216;Omakara&#8217;, &#8216;Iqbal&#8217;, which have taken the camera back to the villages and small town India. In that regard, &#8216;Eklavya&#8217; joins this elite group of movies.  
  
For quite some time, I had a desire to see a Vidhu Vinod Chopra directed movie, made in our times. Before &#8216;Eklavya&#8217; came, we saw Chopra direct a movie in 2000, with &#8216;Mission Kashmir&#8217;. Bollywood has come a long way since then and it would have been interesting to watch how much Chopra has been with the times.  
  
Let me put the point upfront. Chopra falls short of what could have been a majestic take. Well, _Just_ falls short. In this two hour movie, while the camera work and background score keeps you gripped &#8212; the story telling falls apart for brief but critical periods where eventually lies the difference between a 4/5 and a 5/5.  
  
Amitabh Bachchan shows why he is hailed the best of Indian Cinema, even today. As the main character of the movie, the story looks out for being carried on his shoulders and The Big B pulls it off, yet again. The other good thing and perhaps the factor missing in most star studded flicks &#8212; is the individual performances of the actors. Saif Ali Khan does justice to his script though I still insist that his best was in Omkara. Sanjay Dutt, whom I expected to play a much bigger role, gives 150% to whenever he is on screen. In that respect, his performance stands apart. Jackie Shroff is his usual self. The actor he is, one wonders why he comes up with those once-in-a-while forgettable movies. Jimmy Shergill plays the arrogant guy, for a change and delivers. Boman Irani and Vidya Balan could sleep walk through their roles.  
  
It is those post-interval, critical periods which could have been better. Either the running is smooth or when it&#8217;s not, it&#8217;s very intense and suddenly too much seems to be happening. Besides, there is a little forced humor that the movie could have done without. The subject is serious, probably the most serious Chopra has taken up after &#8216;Parinda&#8217;. It gave me an impression that the Director has tried a bit too hard at times, tried to do too many things with lots of stuff happening. Too hot to handle?  
  
If you&#8217;ve seen &#8216;Omkara&#8217;, you will know what I am talking about. Vishal, the director of Omkara and Maqbool, is a fearless director. He did well to strike a balance in both these movies. If you&#8217;re making a serious movie, you&#8217;re making a serious movie. In &#8216;Omkara&#8217; and &#8216;Maqbool&#8217;, there is not a single scene that the script could have done without. In &#8216;Eklavya&#8217;, Chopra, it seems, is tempted to add some romance, some humor, a pinch of melodrama &#8212; albeit in negligible quantities.  
  
But that doesn&#8217;t take away the anything from him, Chopra &#8211; The Director, someone who has his name on the credit listing of some of the best movies that Indian Cinema has had to offer. My verdict &#8212; 4 out of 5.