---
id: 435
title: Deuced
date: 2010-04-03T00:12:19+00:00
author: aditya kumar
layout: post
guid: http://www.adityeah.com/?p=435
permalink: /2010/04/03/deuced/
categories:
  - Political System
  - Society
  - Sports
---
Years back, when rediff.com was yet to be degraded and more often than not carried articles of substance, I remember reading a detailed story about Shoaib Malik&#8217;s Indian wife on the website. Of course, as we all know, Shoaib Malik has been in a state of denial since then but it is a strange cover-up (if it is one), especially since the whole Pakistani team had been treated to a gala dinner in Hyderabad. What adds more credibility to the rediff article is that it claims the source of the news to be Reuters. 

The article is still online. If you are interested, it can be found [here](http://www.rediff.com/cricket/2005/mar/31malik.htm).

Then today evening, I read the news on another news portal that hits a new low every now and then. Timesofindia.com has Bal Thackeray fuming over Sania&#8217;s wedding plans &#8212; &#8220;Had her heart been Indian, it wouldn&#8217;t have beaten for a Pakistani&#8221;. I read that and wondered for a moment. What is wrong with Sania marrying a Pakistani? Would the supremo had said that if her prospective husband was of any other nationality or religion? Her heart is human and it is beating for a fellow human but then again, how can one expect Thackeray to understand things that involve human nature?

I am not a fan of Sania Mirza and I would be happy if she went ahead and proved me wrong because I believe that her best is behind her. And personally, I think there is a chance that she may miss the freedom she enjoys as a Muslim lady in India but these matters, I think, should be left for the individual to decide upon. 

How very unreasonable we all have been in quietly discarding her choice of a beau. Who are we to judge and who gave us that right? Would there be such noise if Shoaib Malik was not from our hostile western neighbour?