---
id: 36
title: 7 seconds
date: 2005-09-26T00:36:04+00:00
author: aditya kumar
layout: post
guid: http://www.adityeah.com/2005/09/26/7-seconds/
permalink: /2005/09/26/7-seconds/
categories:
  - Bangalore
  - Society
---
I see the people who cross the roads in Bangalore. They try to sneak in within gaps of the never ending traffic. They look for opportunities that last a few seconds to cross the road. They run. I see that and I wonder why this seemingly simple act of crossing a road is _literally_ life threatening.  
  
And once someone takes the wrong foot ahead I see that person reaching out and making eye contact with the driver of the vehicle with straight arms and hands open, signifying a last, lame attempt to put an end to the motorist&#8217;s speed and almost begging all of them to slow down, have mercy&#8230; &#8220;I just want to cross this road; It won&#8217;t take more than 7 seconds. Please.&#8221;  
  
I know this happens, I do it myself. Many times a day. Each time someone or the other on the road puts the wrong foot ahead and is trapped in the middle of the road. The final, &#8220;begging-like&#8221; rescue act is executed. Some get hit, most do not.  
  
I can safely claim that being a pedestrian in this city is more stressful than being behind the wheel. It may sound strange, but I am serious. I was once hit by a speeding autorickshaw. I was not on the road, I was on the footpath. Apparently, the driver thought all his counterparts on the road were foolishly waiting for the signal to turn green so he took on the footpath.  
  
An article that was published sometime ago in Deccan Herald claimed the city had to be made &#8220;Pedestrian Friendly&#8221; and suggested measures for it by modifying and making provisions in the city&#8217;s &#8220;Infrastructure&#8221;. I am not sure. I think the problem lies somewhere else.  
  
In a city that has it&#8217;s infrastructure crumbling to an extent that echos are heard as far as [Hongkong](http://www.indianexpress.com/full_story.php?content_id=78475)&#8211; &#8220;Pedestrian friendliness&#8221; is a concept unheard of.  
  
In fact, I do not have a vehicle and since I have to walk everyday, what I face on the street as a pedestrian could be termed as &#8220;Pedestrian enmity&#8221;. When the signal turns Green- the vehicles are not merely &#8220;machines that carry human beings&#8221;- they become those highly motivated soldiers of the army and charge in as if they are at war.  
  
So, you see, it is not any &#8220;infrastructure&#8221; problem at all- If a driver chooses not to slow down for the pedestrian who is in the middle of the road, crossing it, there is less the &#8220;Infrastructure&#8221; can do about it.  
  
Is it so difficult for the speeding driver to realise that he was once a pedestrian? Or should the driving schools also teach that pedestrians are not to be run over and saving those 7 seconds are not worth threatening a life?