---
id: 88
title: Free Speech in Blogging
date: 2006-03-21T23:01:13+00:00
author: aditya kumar
layout: post
guid: http://www.adityeah.com/2006/03/21/88/
permalink: /2006/03/21/88/
categories:
  - Blogging
  - Personal
---
There is a misconception among a lot of people about free speech. Being rude and terming it as &#8220;free speech&#8221; is common. Neither can abusive language be used and described as freedom to express. Free speech, at least to me, is the freedom to express my opinion and at the same time, it is expected that I respect the opinion of others. I may disagree, yes, but I should still respect an opinion. Free speech is the basic element of secularism. That&#8217;s what free speech is.  
  
When exploited, this often takes a form of personal attack.  
  
To me, a &#8220;personal attack&#8221; happens when the commenter goes completely off-topic and talks about something that is bound to offend the author, by means of personal allegations. This is often done using abusive language. There lies the difference between healthy criticism and being rude.  
  
As a blogger, I have started to believe that there are always people who do not like what you say and are often against the stands taken. There is nothing wrong in that. But there are a few of them who are so obsessed about their own point of view that they start making personal attacks to prove their point and some even land in your inbox. That will remain. As a blogger, there is nothing much I can do about them.  
  
  
Most people, readers and writers included, do not take blogging seriously. Some do. If you happen to be one of those who takes it seriously, my advice to you is this &#8212; Be prepared to take criticism in your stride as well. When I say &#8220;criticism&#8221;, I mean criticism of things that you do not like to be talked negatively about. If you don&#8217;t, you are the kind of person I would like to stay away from.  
  
If you happen to be one of those who don&#8217;t take all this so seriously, my advice is &#8212; Listen to U2 and Chill ;)  
  
Like many other blog authors, I may not talk about all the pleasant things in life or use this medium to discuss my favourite colour. It is only a matter of time that you may disagree with one thing or the other I talk about. When that happens, dear Reader, treat it as my opinion and bear with it. Why? Because I bear with and _respect_, yours.  
  
And there are, of course, ways to convey your displeasure without being rude and nasty.