---
id: 199
title: Pune
date: 2007-04-06T20:47:00+00:00
author: aditya kumar
layout: post
guid: http://www.adityeah.com/2007/04/06/pune/
permalink: /2007/04/06/pune/
categories:
  - Personal
  - Travel
  - Writing
---
My earliest memory of Pune takes me back to 2001, when I had come to the city for an interview in what was to be my college where I would go on to do my post graduation from. I remember telling a friend on email that in certain aspects, Pune looked like a combination of Mumbai and Delhi. I still stand by my statement &#8212; It had some Greenery left that reminded me of Delhi. Then, being a distant cousin of Mumbai, some couture automatically rubs off to Pune.  
  
In the hotel room, the first time I rented out a hotel room that is, while flipping channels I came across Sting&#8217;s music video of &#8220;When we dance&#8221;. I experienced bliss. I loved the song so much that the first thing I did the following morning was to buy Sting&#8217;s &#8220;Best of&#8221; album. The following evening, I kept listening to the album in my walkman while I waited for the train to take me back to Indore.  
  
Back in Indore, I was one of the lucky few in the final semester of BCA, who knew where they&#8217;d be leaving for, after graduation was done with. My PG course, though not as good as I would have liked it to be, had given me an assurance, an easiness that spared me those sleepless nights which my other friends were going through (Of course, I have had my share of those before as I had hit a roadblock that could have turned out to be a catastrophe for my career, but that&#8217;s another story). So the career blues notwithstanding, I spent the rest of my 3 months in the city studying Numerical Analysis and Java, while, of course, listening to Sting.  
  
Pune, at least the part I was living in, reflected a laid back lifestyle. Prabhat Road, as I later found out, had been a host to [Narayana Murthy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/N.R._Narayana_Murthy) and Sudha Murthy. It was on these roads, they say, that romance blossomed. Roads, I know, are one of the best places for letting romance grow (Hopelessly romantic, you&#8217;d say). Anyway, my college was on Law College Road, the road nearest to Prabhat Road and the same road on which [FTII](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Film_and_Television_Institute_of_India) is located. Spotting khadi kurta clad aspiring actors was not that difficult and to bump into [Amol Palekar](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amol_Palekar) was also not a rare thing to happen.  
  
After the college hours, I used to wander around Deccan and often found myself going to Alka talkies. One of the few halls in the city that, at that time (and for a long time before that too) encouraged Hollywood by showcasing _only_ Hollywood movies, was almost the same distance from my house as was the college. Not only did I love to watch the pretty Nicole Kidman in the musical &#8220;Moulin Rouge&#8221; &#8212; I was equally horrified as Anthony Hopkins revealed cannibalism to me with &#8220;Hannibal&#8221;. But the freedom that Alka talkies gave me, and I hope still is giving to many like me, was invaluable &#8211;The freedom to watch a flick when you want to, to watch it for Rs.30 and to watch it without advance booking. The freedom to watch a movie at _just_ the moment you feel like, without having to think twice about anything.  
  
Today I am out of college, on my own but can I afford that same freedom?  
  
Oh and by the way, I still listen to Sting.