---
id: 213
title: Back
date: 2007-07-30T01:19:39+00:00
author: aditya kumar
layout: post
guid: http://www.adityeah.com/2007/07/30/back-2/
permalink: /2007/07/30/back-2/
categories:
  - Blogging
  - Personal
---
So what was it? The biggest break I have ever had since I started blogging?  
  
My work has kept me off all the things I like to do whenever I have some time to spare. It reminds me of my &#8220;fresher&#8221; days when, on weekdays, I used to come home for 8-10 hours. I used to be busy. Now, apart from being busy, I am under stress. As it has dawned upon me, I have realized that there is a difference between being busy and being in stress.  
  
A couple of times, these last few days, I did log-in to the dashboard of my blog. I reached out to write. I stared at the &#8220;Write Post&#8221; screen and it stared back at me. I had that time to jot in a few lines but somehow I lost the courage to overcome that small block that I had stumbled upon. I wanted to write, write _something_ but I failed. You know, its one of those things that I have always told to people who want to start blogging&#8211; you can&#8217;t force yourself to write. Until it comes from within, you don&#8217;t want to write. Even if you try to, you can do it once, maybe twice but not forever. Then there is this problem of &#8220;who-reads-my-blog-anyway&#8221; mindset. It&#8217;s one of the most difficult things to deal with. Together, these reasons are collectively responsible for most of the blogs biting the dust.  
  
Since it is seldom that I do personal rants here, it becomes all the more difficult for me to come over phases like these. I am more comfortable talking about socio-economic cycles prevailing in the society and that requires that I keep a tab on matters related. I fail here again, (lack of) time being the culprit.  
  
My problem is that I take my reading, writing and traveling too seriously. It has been a part of me always and I think of these activities as my extension. It discomforts me and I feel guilty when I am not able to do justice to these.  
  
I talk about it all the time, I know, but these days software writing has become such a mess that I wonder, at times, if I&#8217;d like to do it all my life. The few people I know, who are qualified enough to give an opinion on it, laugh at me. They find it funny that I still consider the possibility of being in software all my life. So I have a feeling that somewhere down the line, I&#8217;d find myself at crossroads. But I hope that I&#8217;d be able to take a cue from the experience of these guys who are so sure about shifting off from software now and who, by then, must&#8217;ve dealt with the same kind of situation(s) I&#8217;ll be dealing with, during my time.  
  
So what I have been up to then? These days, I am converting my sleep hours to currency notes, subject to the discretion of my manager, of course. I am selling my sleep,thats what I have been up to. I know a lot of people are probably doing it too and they don&#8217;t have a problem with that. They say, in a way, I am living the American dream.  
  
But I want to read. I want to write. I want to take a week off and go to the sea. I want to sleep.