---
id: 257
title: The New U2
date: 2008-05-22T20:55:52+00:00
author: aditya kumar
layout: post
guid: http://www.adityeah.com/2008/05/22/the-new-u2/
permalink: /2008/05/22/the-new-u2/
categories:
  - U2
---
Rolling Stones magazine [reports](http://www.rollingstone.com/rockdaily/index.php/2008/03/18/rolling-stone-exclusive-coldplays-new-album-title-revealed/) that Coldplay is coming up with a new album next month (June 17th, actually). The fourth album will be titled &#8220;Viva la Vida&#8221; and Coldplay has promised a departure from the usual piano and guitar routine that has brought them success in the previous three albums. Coldplay&#8217;s frontman Chris Martin says even if the album doesn&#8217;t do well, at least it will be brave.  
  
Surely, I agree with that. More than a decade ago U2 found itself on crossroads. Fresh by their success in &#8220;The Joshua Tree&#8221; and &#8220;Rattle and Hum&#8221;, they had a choice to make. They could have gone with the tried and tested formula, cash in on their reputation and made another Joshua Tree like album. Or they could dump every little thing that they had tasted success with and try out something completely different and redefining. A rebirth. They chose the latter and the result was [Achtung Baby](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Achtung_Baby). The album eventually came at Number 62 of Rolling Stone Magazine&#8217;s greatest 500 albums. More important than anything, U2 had not only got in the money with the commercial success of the album, they also kept the critics happy.  
  
The guys at Coldplay are at a similar juncture in their musical careers. They have certainly started it right by roping in Brian Eno as their producer &#8212; The same guy who produced U2&#8217;s Achtung Baby. I just hope that in a bid to be different they don&#8217;t end up overdoing things. But again, I hope they are not their depressing self, for a change.  
  
A hit here would confirm that Coldplay is indeed &#8220;The New U2&#8221;, something that I have always wanted Chris Martin&#8217;s band to be.