---
id: 438
title: Madness
date: 2010-04-18T17:29:50+00:00
author: aditya kumar
layout: post
guid: http://www.adityeah.com/?p=438
permalink: /2010/04/18/madness/
categories:
  - Bangalore
  - Cricket
  - Society
---
Two bombs went off yesterday at the Bangalore cricket stadium, minutes before the Bangalore-Mumbai IPL match. 15 were injured, several among them in a serious condition. Despite all this happening at the match venue, the match went on. A 30 minute delay was all that these bombs managed, apart from the 15 injured. The match went on, Bangalore eventually lost the cricket too while DNA, the day after, has this headline: &#8220;Cricket wins over safety&#8221;.

And if all this was not enough, rediff and timesofindia.com have reported, [here](http://news.rediff.com/report/2010/apr/18/another-live-bomb-found-in-bluru-stadium.htm) and [here](http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bangalore/Another-explosive-device-found-in-Bangalore/articleshow/5827567.cms), the discovery of another live bomb, at the Mahatama Gandhi Statue just outside the stadium. 

My question to the IPL commissioner and the Police commissioner of the city would be why was the match allowed to go on, despite two bombs going on within a few meters of the stadium. With the bomb that was discovered on Sunday, it appears the match went on with a live, yet to be discovered bomb in its vicinity.

Lalit Modi is a greedy man and it is high time he is made to realize the repercussions of his deeds. 

Contrary to what DNA said, I do not think that it was cricket that won yesterday but it was eventually the money.

What surprises me further is that everyone, including some of the most admired Cricket commentators involved in the event look like they have sold themselves off. While they could admire the MRF balloon all they want while discussing its virtues and influences on humanity (not to forget the karbonn kamaal catches), I think it is a disservice to cricket that these individuals have started to advocate everything, good or bad, that the IPL stands for. Well, it is the bad that hurts. 

It would also be interesting to see if any of the senior cricketers, of the likes of Anil Kumble and Sachin Tendulkar, come out in the open, questioning the decision of continuing the event in a scenario such as this.

The BCCI should ask itself questions, retrospect and take ownership. Or has this madness of money which is often confused with cricket, overcome us all?