---
id: 403
title: tagged
date: 2010-02-03T15:45:53+00:00
author: aditya kumar
layout: post
guid: http://www.adityeah.com/?p=403
permalink: /2010/02/03/tagged/
categories:
  - Personal
---
I had been contemplating leaving blogging for a while, or maybe for good. Maybe I should take a few days off and learn to get inspired again. I am not sure. What I am going to do is let it come to me by itself. As a blogger, I know, you can&#8217;t write unless you have to. Unless I have that strong urge again, I am going to let it be. and let me be. I have been having issues at work and there are more important things to concentrate on. In any case, my request to you readers would be to hang in there &#8212; do not delete your bookmarks or the rss feeds of this blog just as yet. 

I have avoided tags in the past (responses to being tagged, etc) but I could not do that this time. So when Sneha from [One Life tagged me](http://afewstrangethings.blogspot.com/2010/01/10-things-of-narcissist.html), I felt amused but I clearly forgot about the tag &#8212; until now. This has been an entirely personal post and I continue the inroads to my personality with the 10 things you never knew about me (well, ok, it is &#8211; 10 things that you may or may not know):

1. When I was 20, in Pune, I fancied working for the intelligence services.  
2. At almost the same time, I used to visit The Times Of India&#8217;s office at Fergusson college road to submit my articles to be considered for publication. They were crap.  
3. I gave my first job interview for my third job.  
4. I can&#8217;t stay away from the sea. I have traveled extensively on the Konkan coast and I have also seen the east coast in a bid to compare the two.  
5. I specialize in (self-taught) Visual Aircraft Recognition.  
6. I draw portraits.  
7. I hate snakes. I can&#8217;t stand them.  
8. Amitav Ghosh and Rohinton Mistry are my favorite writers.  
9. Travel, for me, in many ways, is a time to retrospect. If I move away from my workplace, my mind works very differently and I feel I need to hear the voice within. So maybe, if things permit, I would like to move away from it all and travel.  
10. I knew I would be in software back in 9th standard, though, the inner voice can be misleading at times.

Bonus 11: I am an accomplished minesweeper player (Yes, that Windows game no one understands). My best is 16 seconds at intermediate. I lost the screenshot! But an older best attempt is [here](http://www.adityeah.com/2007/03/10/best-of-minesweeper).

So, who would I tag now? Shradha from [Sleepy Conscience](http://shradharev.blogspot.com/). I wish I could tag a few more people but I am not sure how much is my blog read. Can the silent readers please stand up?